feat: support of ab testing via a dedicated bridge (#717)
AmadeusITGroup/otter: docs/ab-testing/AB_TESTING.md

Author: To which extend should it be duplicated? Just the introduction?

# A/B Testing
## Introduction

> The Otter library exposes a technical bridge ([@o3r/third-party](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@o3r/third-party)) to connect your AB testing solution to the rest of your application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Otter framework exposes a technical bridge ([@o3r/third-party](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@o3r/third-party)) to connect your AB testing solution to the rest of your application.
```

> It allows your third party scripts to drive the experiments to apply on your frontend.
> In the scope of AB testing, we call an experiment a behaviour specific to a group of user -- for instance the display of 
> a banner or a configuration to drive a UI component.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the scope of AB testing, we call an experiment a behavior specific to a group of user -- for instance the display of 
a banner or a configuration to drive a UI component.
It allows your third party scripts to drive the experiments to apply on your frontend.
```

## Mechanism
The ``AbTestBridge`` is a generic class that can support multiple experiment types to fit your

> needs (string, object etc.).The AbTestBridge exposes two methods to expose the list of experiments to apply on the 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
needs (string, object etc.).The ``AbTestBridge`` exposes two methods to expose the list of experiments to apply on the 
```

application: ``window.start`` and ``window.stop``.

The ``start(experiment: T | T[])`` method requests the application to run one or several experiments, the ``stop(experiment: T | T[])`` method will 
remove one or several experiments from the list of experiments while ``stop()`` will stop all the ongoing experiments.

The list of the requested experiments is exposed via ``experiments$`` a public Observable matching your type.
As the experiment type is generic, you need pass an equality method reflecting your type to identify already registered
experiment (stop and avoid duplicate).

```typescript
// Application js

> type myType = {id: string, someExtraProperty: object};
> const isEqual = (a: myType, b: myType) => a.id === b.id;
> const myBridge = new AbTestBridge<myType>(isEqual);

Reviewer: ```suggestion
type MyType = {id: string, someExtraProperty: object};
const isEqual = (a: MyType, b: MyType) => a.id === b.id;
const myBridge = new AbTestBridge<MyType>(isEqual);
```

myBridge.experiments$.subscribe(doSomethingWithExperiments);

// external js

> await window['abTestBridge'].start({id: 'MyExp'});

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
await window.abTestBridge.start({id: 'MyExp'});
```

Would be cleaner and compliant with out linter

// myBridge.experiment$ will emit [{id: 'MyExp'}]
await window.abTestBridge.start([{id: 'MyExp2'}, {id: 'A'}, {id: 'B'}, {id: 'C'}]);
// myBridge.experiment$ will emit [{id: 'MyExp'},[{id: 'MyExp2'}, {id: 'A'}, {id: 'B'}, {id: 'C'}]
await window.abTestBridge.stop([{id: 'A'},  {id: 'B'}]);
// myBridge.experiment$ will emit [{id: 'MyExp1'}, {id: 'MyExp2'}, {id: 'C'}]
await window.abTestBridge.stop({id: 'C'});
// myBridge.experiment$ will emit [{id: 'MyExp1'}, {id: 'MyExp2'}]
await window.abTestBridge.stop();
// myBridge.experiment$ will emit []
```
## Integration

> The experiment$ can be used as an input of your frontend rulesets, to share analytics based on your experiment, to drive

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The ``experiment$`` can be used as an input of your frontend rulesets, to share analytics based on your experiment, to drive
```

> The experiment$ can be used as an input of your frontend rulesets, to share analytics based on your experiment, to drive
> your css behaviour etc. Let's see how we can do it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The ``experiment$`` can be used as an input of your frontend rulesets, to share analytics based on your experiment, to drive
your css behavior etc. Let's see how we can do it.
```

### Experiment-driven rules

> You can reuse the experiment$ Observable as an input in your rules engine.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can reuse the ``experiment$`` stream as an input in your rules engine.
```

You will need to link a fact to the list of ongoing experiments.

> First,you create a fact that will reflect the ongoing experiments. Let's call it experiments.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First,you create a fact that will reflect the ongoing experiments. Let's call it ``experiments``.
```

import type {
  FactDefinitions,
} from '@o3r/rules-engine';

export interface ExperimentFacts extends FactDefinitions {
  /**
   * List of AB profile to apply
   */
  experiments: string[];
}
```

Now you need to expose it to the [rules engine](../rules-engine/how-it-works.md) via a service:
```typescript
import {
  Injectable,
} from '@angular/core';
import {
  FactsService,
  RulesEngineService,
} from '@o3r/rules-engine';
import type {
  ExperimentFacts,
} from './experiment.facts';
import {BehaviorSubject} from 'rxjs';

/**
 * An implementation of a service to populate the experiment fact.
 */
@Injectable({
  providedIn: 'root'
})
export class ExperimentFactsService extends FactsService<ExperimentFacts> {
  /** @inheritDoc */
  public facts = {
    experiments: new BehaviorSubject<string[]>([])
  };

  /**
   * Emit a new list of experiments to re-evaluate the rulesets
   * 
   * @param experiments: new list of experiments to apply. It will override the previous one
   */
  public setExperiments(experiments: {id: string; variationId: string}[]) {
    this.facts.experiments.next(
      experiments.map(({id, variationId}) => `${id}/${variationId}`)
    );
  }
}
```

> **Note** Your service needs to be imported once in the application. A good way to do it is to provide it in root as 
> a singleton.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Warning** Your service must be imported only once in the application. A good way to do it is to provide it in root as a singleton. 
```

> Now, you need to link this service to the ``AbTestBridge`` to update your experiments fact to reflect the experiments$ 
> object. This service will subscribe to the Observable and apply the changes you want.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now, you need to link this service to the ``AbTestBridge`` to update your experiments fact to reflect the ``experiments$`` object. 
This service will subscribe to the stream and apply the changes you want.
```

# A/B Testing
## Introduction
In this page, we will help you integrate an A/B testing solution to the rest of your application.

> Let's first define a core concept of A/B testing: an ``experiment`` is a behavior specific to a group of user 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Let's first define a core concept of A/B testing: an ``experiment`` is a behavior specific to a group of users 
```

-- for instance the display of a banner or a configuration to drive a UI component.

In its [@o3r/third-party](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@o3r/third-party package, the Otter framework exposes a technical
bridge to allow third party scripts to drive experiments on your application.

## Mechanism
The ``AbTestBridge`` is a generic class that can support multiple experiment types to fit your

> needs (string, object etc.). The ``AbTestBridge`` exposes two methods to expose the list of experiments to apply on the 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
needs (string, object etc.). The ``AbTestBridge`` exposes two methods to manage the list of experiments to apply on the 
```
?

experiment (stop and avoid duplicate).

```typescript
// Application js
type MyType = { id: string, someExtraProperty: object };
const isEqual = (a?: MyType, b?: MyType) => a?.id === b?.id;
const myBridge = new AbTestBridge<MyType>(isEqual);

myBridge.experiments$.subscribe(doSomethingWithExperiments);

// external js
await window.abTestBridge.start({id: 'MyExp'});
// myBridge.experiments$ will emit [{id: 'MyExp'}]
await window.abTestBridge.start([{id: 'MyExp2'}, {id: 'A'}, {id: 'B'}, {id: 'C'}]);
// myBridge.experiments$ will emit [{id: 'MyExp'},[{id: 'MyExp2'}, {id: 'A'}, {id: 'B'}, {id: 'C'}]
await window.abTestBridge.stop([{id: 'A'}, {id: 'B'}]);
// myBridge.experiments$ will emit [{id: 'MyExp1'}, {id: 'MyExp2'}, {id: 'C'}]
await window.abTestBridge.stop({id: 'C'});
// myBridge.experiments$ will emit [{id: 'MyExp1'}, {id: 'MyExp2'}]
await window.abTestBridge.stop();
// myBridge.experiments$ will emit []
```
## Integration
``experiments$`` can be used as an input of your frontend rulesets, to share analytics based on your experiment, to drive
your css behavior etc. Let's see how we can do it.

### Experiment-driven rules

> You can use the ``experiments$`` steam as an input in your rules engine to drive your user experience.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You can use the ``experiments$`` stream as an input in your rules engine to drive your user experience.
```

To do so, you will need to link a rules engine fact to the list of ongoing experiments.

> #### The experiments' fact

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
#### The 'experiments' fact
```
?
